Alright we are going to take a look at some of the testing stuff that we have for Spring. So what I want to do is
establish a common terminology around testing what is the difference between a unit test and integration
test is pretty important.
What is a functional test.
Important stuff.
And then we're going to dive in and look at the tools that we have for testing Spring applications.
All right.
In this video we are going to talk about testing within the Spring Framework.
Now I want to get into some testing terminology first.
Code under test.
So this is a phrase that is going to refer to the code or the application that you are testing.
So this is the actual application code.
It could be a Class, a method or a whole application if you are doing functional testing.
So and then the other term that we need to distinguish is test fixture. A test fixture is a fixed state
of a set of objects used as a baseline for running test.
The purpose of a test fixture is to ensure that there will be a well known and fixed environment in
which the tests are run so that the results are repeatable.
And this is right out of the JUnit documentation.
So this is pretty fairly important.
Now you get two distinctions here.
One is let's say keep it simple you have a class that does something. The test fixture is the test itself
and anything that class is going to depend on.
So that can include input data, a mock objects, maybe loading a database with known data or giving a known
set of inputs to that.
That method that you're testing.
So two very important distinctions here.
I see people get these a little blurred at times but you have code under test that is going to be your
your code that you wrote for the application the class or whatever the method.
And then the test fixture is the stuff around it that you're using to test that code. Unit tests / unit
testing.
This is code written test code under test and so should be very specific you're going after to test
a specific portion of code such as a method within a class.
Now the percentage of the lines of code tested ideally is in the 70 percent range 70-80 percent some
people disagree on this.
Some people like to see it more some people say less.
There's a diminishing returns on this so you're writing code to test code.
You do want to have solid coverage but if you start getting up around 100 percent that's where you're
becoming very very nitpicky so you get diminishing returns when you start getting beyond 80 percent.
So you'll be writing test like code log statements and getters and setters and things like that where
you don't have a lot of value in the task.
So I like to shoot in the 70-80 percent range.
It's a good place to be because you are getting effective test coverage.
Now you should be unity in your test.
It's a kind of a made up word there but your unit tests should be small and fast and they're going to
be targeting very specific things.
And a true unit test is not going to have any external dependencies that should not be running on a
database.
Should not be bringing up the Spring context.
It should just be your Java class and your test code.
So that is a true unit test and that is in addition to or in contrast to I should say integration
test.
Now these are designed to test, test behaviors between objects and parts of the overall system. Integration
tests are a much larger scope than unit test.
They can include the Spring context, a database, message brokers.
The downside of your integration test is that they are going to run slower than unit test.
That's an important distinction here.
Your unit test when you're just targeting method on a class is going to run in a fraction of a second.
Integration test if you're bringing up a database through the Spring context that could take 30 seconds
or so or 40 seconds.
But the distinction is a fraction of a second so versus 30 seconds is exponentially larger.
And importance is when you start getting into a large project your integration tests are going to take
time to run.
It could take five minutes, it could take 10 minutes, it could take a half hour depending on how large
the project you have.
And I see a lot of developers favor integration test on things that could be done in it.
So I like to try to focus on unit test over integration test but integration tests absolutely do have
a place. Now functional tests typically means you're going to test a running application. Your application
is live and likely deployed in a known environment.
So you're going to be bringing up as much as you can in that and you're going to be looking at functional
touch points. You could be using Selenium webdriver or JBehave and Spock to test a automatically test
a web application to run a mock browser and test browser actions could be calling web services now calling
API and a web service and sending in or sending and receiving messages over a message brokers.
This is where you are doing functional or also called end to end testing as another bucket for functional
test.
And let's talk about test driven development so that's what we're going to be doing in this course going
forward this is a best practice.
Effectively what you want to do is write your test first.
And of course going to be failing.
And then you're going to produce code to fix the test.
Now behavior driven development something that builds upon test driven development and that specifies
that test and unit of software should be specified in terms of the desired behavior of the unit.
This is often done with DSLs to create a natural language.
The goal of BDD is to open up the test more advanced business users in developer hands.
So you could have a strong QA or trusting person that's technically adapt but you give them a natural
language DSL where they can configure different scenarios.
I've used Cucumber that's a good alternative. I've never used JBehave but I hear good things about
it.
But my personal favorite for BDD is Spock and that's a Groovy based test framework and a good example
of Spock is you get a given when then.
I really like using Spock especially the given when then because it gives you a good framework about
thinking about your tests.
You've got to think about a scenario where you're given a set of data.
When is the action like calling a method on a class and the then statement is what you expect to happen
and you're going to create test around that so it's a really good thing to use and I personally
really favor Spock for a test that I write.
Now a couple other terminologies is a Mock and we are going to definitely be taking advantage of Mock's.
It's a fake implementation of a class used for testing.
Kind of like a test double and you see how I've been teaching you to implement an interface and do dependency
an injection with an interface.
Well guess what our Mock's can implement that interface and allows us to test Dependency Injection classes
so we can inject the Mock and therefore our unit test.
Now a Spy is a partial Mock and usually uses for a heavyweight class where you want to add in use that class
but you want to select methods specific methods of that real class to mock out. So don't see this use
a lot.
I mean there are scenarios where you do want to use this as a tool in the tool box.
I generally favor mocking over using spies but there are scenarios where you do need to use a Spy.
All right testing goals touched on this a little bit already but generally you want the majority of
your test to unit test. Bringing in  the Spring context does make your test exponentially slower.
So I really focus on testing business logic inside of unit test and that's where you want to test the
majority. Your integration tests are going to be testing more and and things you're looking at make sure
that interactions work properly between different components.
So you're not going to be as granular and specific specificity of what you're testing with integration
but you're going to be a little bit looser on the specific criteria. You're looking more for the interaction
there where your unit test you're going to be more precise and what you're asking the test to verify.
And a good way to think about this is think of like a pyramid where the base of that pyramid is going
to be made up of your unit test.
That's where you should have the most number of tests.
And then the middle of that is going to be your integration test.
And at the top that's where you get your functional test live so. You are going to,
should an ideal world you get to have lots and lots of unit tests less integration test and even less
functional test. Ok test scope dependencies.
We have been using the Spring initializr and that has meant bringing in our spring-boot-starter-test
dependency.
And when we do that we get the following dependencies in there so we get JUnit and that is really the
de facto standard for unit testing Java applications. Widely popular it's really risen to the top of popularity.
Most shops that I work with use JUnit.
That's kind of like it said it's the de facto standard so it is a very very popular and it's a simple
testing framework to use and we will be looking at that shortly.
Spring Test and Spring Boot Test these are a set of utilities that Spring provides for testing Spring
and Spring Boot applications. AssertJ,
that is a fluent assertion library and we'll take a look at that later.
Hamcrest is a library of matcher objects. So JUnit itself does have some capabilities as far as doing
assertions but Hamcrest gives us a lot lot more interesting capabilities. Mockito is a Java mocking
framework and it's very popular and we will definitely be utilizing Mockito.
And we have JSONassert and JSONPath.
These two will be when we get into developing RESTful interfaces we will be leveraging those. Now we
spoke about JUnit.
JUnit 4 is very popular right now.
It was originally written by Erich Gamma and Kent Beck is a very iconic guy in the community.
He's the creator of extreme programming and guy does a lot of great great work and great
contributions to the community.
Now at the time of recording JUnit 5 is an alpha. Milestone 1 is expected in July 2017 and it's supposed
to go GA.
Got a typo there.
Third quarter of 2017.
Now let's take a look at some of the JUnit 4 annotations. @Test.
This is an annotation to declare a test method so that says that it is going to be independent test
and the other ones that are important is Before and After . These are going to be things that execute
before each test.
It's a good way to initialize something.
And after you don't see it use too much but that is going to be cleaning up things. And then you have
BeforeClass and AfterClass.
These are going to be executed at once before starting all test and then after class.
Likewise I don't see too much use for those but you do have use cases for that.
Ignore is a way to disable a test.
Sometimes you do break things by accident and you acknowledge it and you say OK I'm going to ignore
this while I work on something else and fix it and come back and fix it.
So there are cases where you do want to use Ignore but sometimes you really don't want to. Then the Test
annotation You can also say you're expecting an exception.
So you do want test non
happy path and make sure if you have a condition that you're expecting it which can cause an exception
you want to be testing for that. And then Test timeout is a way to say if the test takes longer than
X number of milliseconds. And we have a variety of Spring Boot annotation.
I mean you go through these somewhat quickly and talk about the ones that we are most likely to be using.
We have RunWith.
We will definitely be using that.
And that brings up a SpringRunner and this is what allows Spring to work with JUnit to bring up the
Spring context. SpringBootTest is an annotation that is going to look for the Spring Boot application
and bring up its configuration.
So it's kind of automatically going to use your same configuration and then you can also override that
with the annotation TestConfiguration.
So that's going to specify a specific configuration. @MockBean, it's going to inject a Mockito Mock.
So this is a real handy way to create a Mock object and Mockito Mock into your test and we'll definitely
be walking through examples of that. And then SpyBean some where injects some Mockito Spy. And
then let's see if we get JsonTest, WebMvcTest and DataJpaTest.
These are all different annotations that bring up different Spring cause it's slices of the system.
So JsonTest is something that you'd be using when you are expecting to use JSON input and output
likely developing a RESTful API and you have WebMvcTest as it's going to bring up a test context with
out a full HTTP server.
So this is actually a very important one.
It allows us to test the Spring web MVC controllers with a Mock HTTP session in an environment without the
heavyweight of bring up like a Tomcat server or deploying the Tomcat. Then DataJpaTest.
This is going to bring up a test data layer with an embedded database and also the entity managers.
So that gives us like we can test Spring Data JPA against a in memory database. Now we have a variety of
other annotations.
JdbcTest is like the DataJpaTest.
But it does not bring up any entity manager. So you going to be doing SQL with that. You can
test with Mongo, ReskClient, RestDocks is something that we'll be looking at in the future when we get
to talking about RESTful APIs.
And then a very important one is ContextConfiguration. This allows us to specify a context for the task.
It gives a lot of control of how Spring brings up the context. ActiveProfiles is something that we'll
definitely be looking at in the future of the course.
Allows us to specify active profiles to which active profile we want to be using for a specific
test. TestPropertySource allows us to specify specific property files for the test. DirtiesContext is a very
important one that is going to reset the Spring context. So when you're running the Spring context it
is going to get cached between test you run multiple tests against a single Spring context that's not
going to get recreated for each one.
But when you do the DirtiesContext if you've corrupted something in an environment this is where you
want to use this and it's going to rebuild the Spring context after that test runs.
And this is very expensive to do. So there is a need for it but use that one with caution.
The next one I want to talk about is Transactional and this is something that we're going to use
definitely when we're testing database integration and we haven't really talked too much about transactions.
But what this allows us to do is run our test manipulate data and by default Spring we'll roll it back.
Now if you don't mark it as Transactional what's going to happen is a test will run and it's going to populate
that data the test out of generate by the test to your database and it will be persistent so it could
corrupt another test. So this is a good annotation to have.
And then BeforeTransaction, AfterTransaction that's stuff to do before I say transactions. Commit is
to specify that we want that test to commit its data unlike rolling back where it does which is what
happens by default.
Now we can actually specify Rollback if we need to ask you is a very handy one it allows us to specify
ask you all scripts that we want to run for our test and then SqlConfig what it allows controls
and meta data around the test and SqlGroup just allows us to group together several SQL annotations
and SQL can fix.
Repeat is says to repeat the test X number of times and then we have Timed It's very similar to JUnit's
timeout but it will actually wait for the test to complete
unlike JUnit. And then IfProfileValue and ProfileValueSourceConfiguration these are kind of rarely
used but we can say that we are indicating a test is available for a specific profile.